Programmed bot player for the game TRON. TRON is a two-player game played on a rectangular grid, in which players take turns moving in one of four directions (Up, Down, Left, and Right) and leave behind an impenetrable barrier in the position where they were. A player loses by colliding with a barrier or one of the innate walls of the board.
The decision making is implemented by Adversarial Search with Voronoi heuristic. The "Voronoi heuristic" works like this: for each spot on the map, find whether player 1 can reach it before player 2 does or vice versa. This creates a Voronoi diagram with just two points which sort of winds around all the obstacles. The heuristic can easily be done using a BFS from our position to all other available nodes in the graph and numbering the distances of each point accordingly. Then run a BFS from the opponent's position to all other available nodes and tally up which nodes the opponent is closer to and equidistant from. In running the BFS from each player's position we can verify if their BFS trees actually overlap (they can each reach a mutual point). If their searches do not overlap for a particular move we create a split between nodes reachable to us and nodes reachable to our opponent. From then on, we simply try to "survive" as long as possible and run out the clock for the other player.
The heuristic value I used is comprised of each player's score, which comes into 3 conditions:
(1) when both players' distance to the same location does not equal to zero, then the player with the shorter distance will occupy the location sooner than the other, and so this player get score.
(2) when only one player's distance to the same location is zero. This means the board is split into two disjunct section with each player in different section.
Then the player with zero distance lose score for this location. This is also a signal that the game moves into Survival mode.
(3) when both players' distance is zero. Neither get point for this location.
The final heuristic value is the subtraction of player 1's score from player 2's.
In survival phase we presumably already have disjoint sets of reachable nodes. From here on we simply need to survive longer than our opponent. This means avoiding dead-end paths (when possible), not hitting ourselves, and making the most use of the space available. Ideally, we would find the longest path in our area and simply follow that, but again this is NP-Complete. We instead used a wall-hugging stategy which attempts to make moves following a wall. This makes very good use of our space available in survival scenarios.

I use the Voronoi heuristic because it gives the best estimate and does not takes too much computation, and the goal of the game is try to take up more spots than the opponent, so the first goal is to enclose more space than the other, and Voronoi does this very well. In the survival phase, the problem becomes finding the longest path and the most efficient way is by using wall-hugging bot, since we have a decision time limit.
